# Base LaTeX Build Environment

This is a bare-bones environment for building LaTeX documents and
presentations driven by `latexmk` and loosely based on Chris Batten's
Automatic LaTeX Build System (but slightly less full featured and not
using Chris' custom Ruby dependency chaser).

## Optional Dependencies
* Inkscape (used to convert .svg to .eps automatically)
* pdfpc (as the default presentation tool)
* impressive (as an alternative presentation tool)

## Setup and Usage

This repository is intended to build three targets:
* A LaTeX paper
* A Beamer presentation with overlays (pseudo-animations/reveals)
* A Beamer handout (the presentation without overlays)
* A Beamer poster

First, you must edit `CONFIG.m4` to define the name of the top level paper, presentation, and poster LaTeX files. Edit `CONFIG.m4` changing the defines to point to the names of your top-level source files (e.g., `mypaper`, `mypresentation`). The Makefile expects to see corresponding LaTeX source files in the src directory (e.g., `src/mypaper.tex`). You can then get everything setup with the "not really a `configure` script":

```bash
./configure
```

This will populate a template Makefile with your defined paper/presentation. You can then just use `make`:

```bash
make
```

Note that by default, I have enabled the `format-build` target. This
feeds all input files in the `src` directory that look like
`^.*?sec-.+?\.tex` (things like `sec-introduction.tex`) through Andrew
Stacey's `fmtlatex`. This forcibly rewrites all input files into a
one-sentence-per-line format. This format is __strongly preferable__
when version controlling LaTeX files and helps avoid a one word
modification from turning into a complete paragraph rewrite due to
compulsive paragraphing reflow habits, e.g., `emacs` `M-q` tic. I have
yet to encounter this breaking anything, but it is possible. All files are first backed up in `src/bak`.

## Directory Structure

* `build` -- Main build directory where all output files will be written. This includes .eps files generated by Inkscape. You should reference this directory when including .eps graphics.
* `scripts` -- Defines certain helper build scripts, like `fmtlatex`
* `src` -- Top-level repository for all source LaTeX files. Section files are expected to look like `sec-XXX.tex`.
    * `bak` -- Contains the most recent backup of anything fed through `fmtlatex`
    * `bib` -- Directory containing all BibTeX files
    * `figures` -- Directory containing all figures including .svg vector graphics
    * `templates` -- Directory for LaTeX templates
* `submodules` -- Other git repositories that are used by this repo
    * `palette-art` -- Submodule that defines Colorbrewer colors for use in LaTeX
